Updating collected plugins - first pass (#157)
infrawatch/documentation: common/collectd/ref_collectd-plugins.adoc

* collectd::plugin::aggregation::aggregators
* collectd::plugin::aggregation::interval

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::ampq

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::amqp1

Use the `amqp1` plug-in to write values to an amqp1 message bus, for example, {MessageBus}.

.Options

.amqp1 options
[cols="50%,50%"]
|===
|Parameter  |Type

|manage_package
|Boolean

|transport
|String

|host
|string

|port
|integer

|user
|String

|password
|String

|address
|String

|instances
|Hash

|retry_delay
|Integer

|send_queue_limit
|Integer

|interval
|Integer
|===

.Example configuration

----
  Parameter_defaults:
    CollectdExtraPlugins:
      - amqp1
    ExtraConfig:
      collectd::plugin::amqp1::send_queue_limit: 50
----

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::apache

Use the `apache` plug-in to collect Apache data.

.apache options
[cols="50%,50%"]
|===
|Parameter  |Type

|instances |Hash

|interval |Integer

|manage-package |Boolean

|package_install_options |List

|===

.Example configuration
----
parameter_defaults:
    ExtraConfig:
        collectd::plugin::apache:

>         localhost:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          localhost:
```

>             url: "http://10.0.0.111/status?auto"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
              url: "http://10.0.0.111/status?auto"
```

        collectd::plugin::ceph::daemons:
           - ceph-osd.0
           - ceph-osd.1
           - ceph-osd.2
           - ceph-osd.3
           - ceph-osd.4
----

[NOTE]
If the OSDs do not exist on all nodes, you must still ensure that you list the OSDs.

[NOTE]
When you deploy collectd, the `ceph` plug-in is automatically added to ceph nodes. Adding the `ceph` plug-in on ceph nodes to `CollectdExtraPlugins` results in a deployment failure.

.Additional resources

For more information about configuring the `ceph` plug-in, see https://collectd.org/documentation/manpages/collectd.conf.5.shtml#plugin_ceph[ceph].

[discrete]
== collectd::plugins::cgroups

Use the `cgroups` plug-in to collect information for processes in a cgroup.

.cgroups options
[cols="50%,50%"]
|===
|Parameter  |Type

|ignore_selected
|Boolean

|interval
|Integer

|cgroups
|List
|===

.Additional resources

For more information about configuring the `cgroups` plug-in, see https://collectd.org/documentation/manpages/collectd.conf.5.shtml#plugin_cgroups[cgroups].

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::chrony

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::connectivity

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::conntrack

* None

> == collectd::plugin::contextswitch

Author: ```suggestion
[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::contextswitch
```

> [discrete]

Author: ```suggestion
```

* collectd::plugin::contextswitch::interval

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::cpu

Use the `cpu` plug-in to monitor the amount of time spent by the CPU in various states, for example, executing user code, executing system code, waiting for IO-operations, and being idle.

> The `cpu` plug-in does not collect percentages. It collects _jiffies_, which are units of scheduling. On many Linux systems, there are approximately 100 jiffies in one second, but this does not mean that you get a percentage value. Depending on system load, hardware, whether or not the system is virtualized, and other factors, there can be more or less than 100 jiffies in one second. There is no guarantee that all states add up to 100, which is a requirement for percentages.

Reviewer: In general, the cpu plugin collects jiffies, but by selecting both, ReportByCpu and ReportByState set to true, you can also set ValuesPercentage false|true. when set to true, you'll get percentage.

Author: Very interesting, thank you Matthias, I will edit this section to include this information.

> The `cpu` plug-in does not collect percentages. It collects _jiffies_, which are units of scheduling. On many Linux systems, there are approximately 100 jiffies in one second, but this does not mean that you get a percentage value. Depending on system load, hardware, whether or not the system is virtualized, and other factors, there can be more or less than 100 jiffies in one second. There is no guarantee that all states add up to 100, which is a requirement for percentages.

Author: ```suggestion
The `cpu` plug-in does not collect percentages. It collects _jiffies_, which are units of scheduling. On many Linux systems, there are approximately 100 jiffies in one second, but this does not mean that you get a percentage value. 

To get a percentage value, set the Boolean parameters `ReportByCpu` and `ReportByState` to `true`, and then you can set the boolean parameter `ValuesPercentage` to true.

```

.cpu metrics
[cols="20%,30%,50%"]
|===
|Name  |Description | Query

|idle
|Amount of idle time
|collectd_cpu_total{...,type_instance='idle'}

|interrupt
|CPU blocked by interrupts
|collectd_cpu_total{...,type_instance='interrupt'}

|nice
|Amount of time running low priority processes
|collectd_cpu_total{...,type_instance='nice'}

|softirq
|Amount of cycles spent in servicing interrupt requests
|collectd_cpu_total{...,type_instance='waitirq'}

|steal
|The percentage of time a virtual CPU waits for a real CPU while the hypervisor is servicing another virtual processor
|collectd_cpu_total{...,type_instance='steal'}

|system
|Amount spent on system level (kernel)
|collectd_cpu_total{...,type_instance='system'}

|user
|Jiffies used by user processes
|collectd_cpu_total{...,type_instance='user'}

|wait
|CPU waiting on outstanding I/O request
|collectd_cpu_total{...,type_instance='wait'}
|===

> .cgroups options

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.cpu options
```

// The `context` attribute enables module reuse. Every module's ID includes
// {context}, which ensures that the module has a unique ID even if it is
// reused multiple times in a guide.
//:context: appendix
//
// In the title, include nouns that are used in the body text. This helps
// readers and search engines find information quickly.
//[appendix]
//[[appe-stf-collectd-plugins]]
= collectd plug-ins

ifeval::["{build}" == "downstream"]
[IMPORTANT]
Red Hat is currently updating the plug-in information in this guide for this release.
endif::[]

> You can configure multiple collectd plug-ins to suit your {OpenStack} {OpenStackVersion} environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Configure collectd plug-ins in your {OpenStack} {OpenStackVersion} deployment.
```

Author: Hi Michael, 
Great suggestion but because this is the intro to a reference topic, I don't want to use prescriptive language.

> //The following list of headers shows the available heat template `ExtraConfig` options that you can set to override the defaults. Each section provides the general configuration name for the `ExtraConfig` option. For example, if there is a collectd plugin called `example_plugin`, the header is in the format of collectd::plugin::example_plugin.

Author: ```suggestion
//The following list of headers shows the available heat template `ExtraConfig` options that you can set to override the //defaults. Each section provides the general configuration name for the `ExtraConfig` option. For example, if there is //a collectd plugin called `example_plugin`, the header is in the format of collectd::plugin::example_plugin.
```

> //The following list of headers shows the available heat template `ExtraConfig` options that you can set to override the //defaults. Each section provides the general configuration name for the `ExtraConfig` option. For example, if there is //a collectd plugin called `example_plugin`, the header is in the format of collectd::plugin::example_plugin.

Author: ```suggestion
//The following list of headers shows the available heat template `ExtraConfig` options that you can set to override the defaults. Each section provides the general configuration name for the `ExtraConfig` option. For example, if there is a collectd plugin called `example_plugin`, the header is in the format of collectd::plugin::example_plugin.
```

> The following list of headers shows the available THT `ExtraConfig` options that can be set to override the defaults provided by TripleO. Each section provides the general configuration name for the `ExtraConfig` option. For example, if there is a collectd plugin called `example_plugin`, the header is in the format of collectd::plugin::example_plugin.

Author: ```suggestion
The following list of headers shows the available heat template `ExtraConfig` options that you can set to override the defaults. Each section provides the general configuration name for the `ExtraConfig` option. For example, if there is a collectd plugin called `example_plugin`, the header is in the format of collectd::plugin::example_plugin.
```

> Some documented plug-ins have a table of available parameters in the Options tables. To make use of this, see the following example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can reference Options tables of available parameters for specific plug-ins, such as in the following example:
```

----
ExtraConfig:
  collectd::plugin::example_plugin::<parameter>: <value>
----

> Some documented plug-ins have a table of metrics for which you can run a query from Grafana or Prometheus.

Author: ```suggestion
Some documented plug-ins have a table of metrics. You can use the information in this table run a query from Grafana or Prometheus.
```

> Some documented plug-ins have a table of metrics. You can use the information in the metrics tables to run queries from Grafana or Prometheus.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can reference the metrics table information of specific plug-ins for Prometheus or Grafana queries.
```
OR
Query Prometheus or Grafana with the information from the metrics tables of specific plug-ins.

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::aggregation

> Use the `aggregation` plug-in to aggregate several values into one by using aggregation functions, for example, sum, average, min, and max. This can be put to a wide variety of uses, for example, average and total CPU statistics.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can aggregate several values into one with the `aggregation` plug-in. Use the aggregation functions such as `sum`, `average`, `min`, and `max` to calculate useful metrics, for example average and total CPU statistics.
```

Use the `amqp1` plug-in to write values to an amqp1 message bus, for example, {MessageBus}.

.Options

.amqp1 options
[cols="50%,50%"]
|===
|Parameter  |Type

|manage_package
|Boolean

|transport
|String

|host
|string

|port
|integer

|user
|String

|password
|String

|address
|String

|instances
|Hash

|retry_delay
|Integer

|send_queue_limit
|Integer

|interval
|Integer
|===

.Example configuration

----
  Parameter_defaults:
    CollectdExtraPlugins:
      - amqp1
    ExtraConfig:
      collectd::plugin::amqp1::send_queue_limit: 50
----

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::apache

Use the `apache` plug-in to collect Apache data.

.apache options
[cols="50%,50%"]
|===
|Parameter  |Type

|instances |Hash

|interval |Integer

|manage-package |Boolean

|package_install_options |List

|===

.Example configuration
----
parameter_defaults:
    ExtraConfig:
        collectd::plugin::apache:
          localhost:
              url: "http://10.0.0.111/status?auto"
----

.Additional resources

For more information about configuring the `apache` plug-in, see https://collectd.org/documentation/manpages/collectd.conf.5.shtml#plugin_apache[apache].

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::battery

> Use the `battery` plug-in to report the remaining capacity, power, and voltage of laptop batteries.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the `battery` plug-in to report the remaining capacity, power, or voltage of laptop batteries.
```

.battery options
[cols="50%,50%"]
|===
|Parameter  |Type

|values_percentage |Boolean

|report_degraded |Boolean

|query_state_fs |Boolean

|interval | Integer
|===

.Additional resources

For more information about configuring the `battery` plug-in, see https://collectd.org/documentation/manpages/collectd.conf.5.shtml#plugin_ceph[battery].

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::bind

> The `bind` plug-in retrieves encoded statistics about queries and responses from a DNS server. The plug-in submits the values to collectd.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the `bind` plug-in to retrieve encoded statistics about queries and responses from a DNS server. The plug-in submits the values to collectd.
```

[discrete]
==  collectd::plugin::ceph

Use the `ceph` plug-in to gather data from ceph daemons.

.ceph options
[cols="50%,50%"]
|===
|Parameter  |Type

|daemons |Array

|longrunavglatency |Boolean

|convertspecialmetrictypes |Boolean

|manage_package |Boolean

|package_name |String
|===

.Example configuration
----
parameter_defaults:
    ExtraConfig:
        collectd::plugin::ceph::daemons:
           - ceph-osd.0
           - ceph-osd.1
           - ceph-osd.2
           - ceph-osd.3
           - ceph-osd.4
----

[NOTE]

> If the OSDs do not exist on all nodes, you must still ensure that you list the OSDs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If an OSD is not on every node, you must list the OSDs.
```

[NOTE]

> When you deploy collectd, the `ceph` plug-in is automatically added to ceph nodes. Adding the `ceph` plug-in on ceph nodes to `CollectdExtraPlugins` results in a deployment failure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you deploy `collectd`, the `ceph` plug-in is added to the ceph nodes. Do not add the `ceph` plug-in on ceph nodes to `CollectdExtraPlugins`, because this results in a deployment failure. 
```

.Additional resources

For more information about configuring the `ceph` plug-in, see https://collectd.org/documentation/manpages/collectd.conf.5.shtml#plugin_ceph[ceph].

[discrete]
== collectd::plugins::cgroups

Use the `cgroups` plug-in to collect information for processes in a cgroup.

.cgroups options
[cols="50%,50%"]
|===
|Parameter  |Type

|ignore_selected
|Boolean

|interval
|Integer

|cgroups
|List
|===

.Additional resources

For more information about configuring the `cgroups` plug-in, see https://collectd.org/documentation/manpages/collectd.conf.5.shtml#plugin_cgroups[cgroups].

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::chrony

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::connectivity

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::conntrack

* None
[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::contextswitch

* collectd::plugin::contextswitch::interval

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::cpu

> Use the `cpu` plug-in to monitor the amount of time spent by the CPU in various states, for example, executing user code, executing system code, waiting for IO-operations, and being idle.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the `cpu` plug-in to monitor the time the CPU spends in various states, for example, idle, executing user code, executing system code, waiting for IO-operations, and other states.
```

> The `cpu` plug-in does not collect percentages. It collects _jiffies_. A jiffy is not an absolute time interval unit and depends on the clock frequency of your hardware platform.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `cpu` plug-in collects `_jiffies_` , not percentage values. The value of a jiffy depends on the clock frequency of your hardware platform, and therefore is not an absolute time interval unit.
```

> The `cpu` plug-in does not collect percentages. It collects _jiffies_, which are units of scheduling. On many Linux systems, there are approximately 100 jiffies in one second, but this does not mean that you get a percentage value. 

Author: ```suggestion
The `cpu` plug-in does not collect percentages. It collects _jiffies_, which are units of scheduling. On many Linux systems, there are approximately 100 jiffies in one second. 
```

> The `cpu` plug-in does not collect percentages. It collects _jiffies_, which are units of scheduling. On many Linux systems, there are approximately 100 jiffies in one second, but this does not mean that you get a percentage value. 

Author: ```suggestion
The `cpu` plug-in does not collect percentages. It collects _jiffies_. A jiffy is not an absolute time interval unit and is depends on the clock frequency of your hardware platform.
```

> To get a percentage value, set the Boolean parameters `reportbycpu` and `reportbystate` to `true`, and then you can set the Boolean parameter `valuespercentage` to true.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To report a percentage value, set the Boolean parameters `reportbycpu` and `reportbystate` to `true`, and then set the Boolean parameter `valuespercentage` to true.
```

> To get a percentage value, set the Boolean parameters `reportbycpu` and `reportbystate` to `true`, and then you can set the boolean parameter `valuespercentage` to true.

Author: ```suggestion
To get a percentage value, set the Boolean parameters `reportbycpu` and `reportbystate` to `true`, and then you can set the Boolean parameter `valuespercentage` to true.
```

.cpu metrics
[cols="20%,30%,50%"]
|===
|Name  |Description | Query

|idle
|Amount of idle time
|collectd_cpu_total{...,type_instance='idle'}

|interrupt
|CPU blocked by interrupts
|collectd_cpu_total{...,type_instance='interrupt'}

|nice
|Amount of time running low priority processes
|collectd_cpu_total{...,type_instance='nice'}

|softirq
|Amount of cycles spent in servicing interrupt requests
|collectd_cpu_total{...,type_instance='waitirq'}

|steal
|The percentage of time a virtual CPU waits for a real CPU while the hypervisor is servicing another virtual processor
|collectd_cpu_total{...,type_instance='steal'}

|system

> |Amount spent on system level (kernel)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Amount of time spent on system level (kernel)
```

|user
|Jiffies used by user processes
|collectd_cpu_total{...,type_instance='user'}

|wait
|CPU waiting on outstanding I/O request
|collectd_cpu_total{...,type_instance='wait'}
|===

.cpu options
[cols="50%,50%"]
|===
|Parameter  |Type

|reportbystate
|Boolean

|valuespercentage
|Boolean

|reportbycpu
|Boolean

|reportnumcpu
|Boolean

|reportgueststate
|Boolean

|subtractgueststate
|Boolean

|interval
|Integer
|===

.Example configuration

----
parameter_defaults:
    CollectdExtraPlugins:
      - cpu
    ExtraConfig:
        collectd::plugin::cpu::reportbystate: true
----

.Additional resources

For more information about configuring the `cpu` plug-in, see https://collectd.org/documentation/manpages/collectd.conf.5.shtml#plugin_cpu[cpu plug-in].

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::cpufreq
* None

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::cpusleep

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::csv

* collectd::plugin::csv::datadir
* collectd::plugin::csv::storerates
* collectd::plugin::csv::interval

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::curl_json

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::curl

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::curl_xml

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::dbi

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::df

> Use the `df` plug-in to collect file system usage information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the `df` plug-in to collect disk space usage information for file systems.
```

.df metrics
[cols="20%,30%,50%"]
|===
|Name  |Description | Query

|free

> |Amount of free space

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Amount of free disk space
```

|collectd_df_df_complex{..., type_instance="free"}

|reserved

> |reserved disk space

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Amount of reserved disk space
```

|collectd_df_df_complex{..., type_instance="reserved"}

|used

> |used disk space

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Amount of used disk space
```

* collectd::plugin::ipmi::notify_sensor_not_present
* collectd::plugin::ipmi::sensors
* collectd::plugin::ipmi::interval

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::iptables

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::irq
* collectd::plugin::irq::irqs
* collectd::plugin::irq::ignoreselected
* collectd::plugin::irq::interval

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::load

Use the `load` plug-in to collect the system load and to get overview on  system use.

* collectd::plugin::load::report_relative
* collectd::plugin::load::interval

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::logfile
* collectd::plugin::logfile::log_level
* collectd::plugin::logfile::log_file
* collectd::plugin::logfile::log_timestamp
* collectd::plugin::logfile::print_severity
* collectd::plugin::logfile::interval

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::log_logstash

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::madwifi

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::match_empty_counter

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::match_hashed

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::match_regex

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::match_timediff

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::match_value

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::mbmon

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::mcelog

> Use the `mcelog` plug-in to send notifications and statistics relevant to Machine Check Exceptions when they occur. Configure `mcelog` to run on the platform in daemon mode and ensure that logging capabilities are enabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the `mcelog` plug-in to send notifications and statistics relevant to Machine Check Exceptions when they occur. Configure `mcelog` to run in daemon mode and ensure that logging capabilities are enabled.
```

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::nfs
* collectd::plugin::nfs::interval

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::notify_nagios

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::ntpd

* collectd::plugin::ntpd::host
* collectd::plugin::ntpd::port
* collectd::plugin::ntpd::reverselookups
* collectd::plugin::ntpd::includeunitid
* collectd::plugin::ntpd::interval

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::numa
* None

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::olsrd

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::openldap

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::openvpn

* collectd::plugin::openvpn::statusfile
* collectd::plugin::openvpn::improvednamingschema
* collectd::plugin::openvpn::collectcompression
* collectd::plugin::openvpn::collectindividualusers
* collectd::plugin::openvpn::collectusercount
* collectd::plugin::openvpn::interval

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::ovs_stats

Use the `ovs_stats` plug-in to collect statistics of OVS connected interfaces. This plug-in uses the OVSDB management protocol (RFC7047) monitor mechanism to get statistics from OVSDB.

.ovs_stats options
[cols="50%,50%"]
|===
|Parameter  |Type

|address
|String

|bridges
|List

|port
|Integer

|socket
|String
|===

.Example configuration

----
    parameter_defaults:

>         CollectdExtraPlugins:

Reviewer: Do not add the plugin in extraplugins; it will automatically get added, if ovs is installed.

Author: @mrunge Do you suggest that I delete only line 720? Is that correct?

Reviewer: Difficult. The plugin itself will be added automatically, ovs is installed.

If it's not, the way you described would be used to get it added on all nodes. If someone follows the docs blindly, that person would then end up with ovs_stats installed on all nodes, even on those, where it is undesirable. With that, I would leave out the example configuration completely.

          - ovs_stats
        ExtraConfig:

>         collectd::plugin::ovs_stats::socket: '/run/openvswitch/db.sock'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          collectd::plugin::ovs_stats::socket: '/run/openvswitch/db.sock'
```

* collectd::plugin::network::servers
* collectd::plugin::network::interval

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::nfs
* collectd::plugin::nfs::interval

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::notify_nagios

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::ntpd

* collectd::plugin::ntpd::host
* collectd::plugin::ntpd::port
* collectd::plugin::ntpd::reverselookups
* collectd::plugin::ntpd::includeunitid
* collectd::plugin::ntpd::interval

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::numa
* None

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::olsrd

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::openldap

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::openvpn

* collectd::plugin::openvpn::statusfile
* collectd::plugin::openvpn::improvednamingschema
* collectd::plugin::openvpn::collectcompression
* collectd::plugin::openvpn::collectindividualusers
* collectd::plugin::openvpn::collectusercount
* collectd::plugin::openvpn::interval

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::ovs_stats

> Use the `ovs_stats` plug-in to collect statistics of OVS connected interfaces. This plug-in uses the OVSDB management protocol (RFC7047) monitor mechanism to get statistics from OVSDB.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the `ovs_stats` plug-in to collect statistics of OVS-connected interfaces. The `ovs_stats` plug-in uses the OVSDB management protocol (RFC7047) monitor mechanism to get statistics from OVSDB.
```

.ovs_stats options
[cols="50%,50%"]
|===
|Parameter  |Type

|address
|String

|bridges
|List

|port
|Integer

|socket
|String
|===

.Example configuration

> 

Author: This is an example of how to enable the plugin. If you deploy your overcloud with OVS, you do not need to enable the plugin.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
This is an example of how to enable the plugin. If you deploy your overcloud with OVS, you do not need to enable the plugin.
```

> This is an example of how to enable the ovs_stats plugin. If you deploy your overcloud with OVS, you do not need to enable the plugin.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to enable the ovs_stats plugin. If you deploy your overcloud with OVS, you do not need to enable the ovs_stats plugin.
```

----
    parameter_defaults:
        CollectdExtraPlugins:
          - ovs_stats
        ExtraConfig:
          collectd::plugin::ovs_stats::socket: '/run/openvswitch/db.sock'
----

.Additional resources

* For more information about configuring the `ovs_stats` plug-in, see https://collectd.org/documentation/manpages/collectd.conf.5.shtml#plugin_ovs_stats[ovs_stats].

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::pcie_errors

> Use the `pcie_errors` plug-in to poll PCI config space for baseline and Advanced Error Reporting (AER) errors, and to parse syslog for AER events. Errors are reported through notifications.

Reviewer 2: Is "Errors are reported through notifications." unique for pcie_errors plug-in?

Author: I don't know. There are lots of undocumented plugins and perhaps they have this feature?

Reviewer: The plugin sends notifications. That is not unique for this plugin. It describes what the plugin does with errors captured from hardware.

A more complete description on what the plugin does is https://github.com/collectd/collectd/blob/main/src/collectd.conf.pod#plugin-pcie_errors

Author: Thanks @mrunge

* collectd::plugin::powerdns::servers
* collectd::plugin::powerdns::recursors
* collectd::plugin::powerdns::local_socket
* collectd::plugin::powerdns::interval

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::processes
* collectd::plugin::processes::processes
* collectd::plugin::processes::process_matches
* collectd::plugin::processes::collect_context_switch
* collectd::plugin::processes::collect_file_descriptor
* collectd::plugin::processes::collect_memory_maps
* collectd::plugin::powerdns::interval

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::protocols
* collectd::plugin::protocols::ignoreselected
* collectd::plugin::protocols::values

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::python

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::sensors

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::serial

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::smart

* collectd::plugin::smart::disks
* collectd::plugin::smart::ignoreselected
* collectd::plugin::smart::interval

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::snmp

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::snmp_agent

Use the `snmp_agent` plug-in as an SNMP subagent to map collectd metrics to relevant OIDs. The snmp agent also requires a running snmpd service.

.Example configuration:

----
parameter_defaults:
    CollectdExtraPlugins:

> snmp_agent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        snmp_agent
```

* collectd::plugin::turbostat::running_average_power_limit
* collectd::plugin::turbostat::logical_core_names

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::unixsock

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::uptime

* collectd::plugin::uptime::interval

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::users
* collectd::plugin::users::interval

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::uuid
* collectd::plugin::uuid::uuid_file
* collectd::plugin::uuid::interval

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::virt

> Use the `virt` plug-in to collect CPU, disk, network load and other metrics for virtual machines on the host. Metrics are collected through the `libvirt` API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the `virt` plug-in to collect CPU, disk, network load, and other metrics for virtual machines on the host. Metrics are collected through the `libvirt` API.
```

> Use the `virt` plug-in to collect CPU, disk, network load and other metrics for virtual machines on the host. Metrics are collected through the `libvirt` API.

Reviewer 2: Do we say "instance" or "virtual machine" ?

.virt options
[cols="50%,50%"]
|===
|Parameter  |Type

|connection |String

|refresh_interval |Hash

|domain |String

|block_device |String

|interface_device |String

|ignore_selected |Boolean

|plugin_instance_format |String

|hostname_format |String

|interface_format |String

|extra_stats |String

|===

.Example configuration

----
ExtraConfig:
    collectd::plugin::virt::plugin_instance_format: name
----

.Additional resources

For more information about configuring the `virt` plug-in, see https://collectd.org/documentation/manpages/collectd.conf.5.shtml#plugin_virt[virt].

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::vmem

* collectd::plugin::vmem::verbose
* collectd::plugin::vmem::interval

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::vserver

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::wireless

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::write_graphite

* collectd::plugin::write_graphite::carbons
* collectd::plugin::write_graphite::carbon_defaults
* collectd::plugin::write_graphite::globals

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::write_http

> Use the `write_http` output plug-in to submit values to an HTTP server by using POST requests and encoding metrics with JSON or using the `PUTVAL` command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the `write_http` plug-in to submit values to an HTTP server by using POST requests and encoding metrics with JSON, or by using the `PUTVAL` command.
```

.write_http options
[cols="50%,50%"]
|===
|Parameter  |Type

|ensure
|Enum['present', 'absent']

|nodes
|Hash[String, Hash[String, Scalar]]

|urls
|Hash[String, Hash[String, Scalar]]

|manage_package
|Boolean

|===

.Example configuration

----
parameter_defaults:
    CollectdExtraPlugins:
      - write_http
    ExtraConfig:
        collectd::plugin::write_http::nodes:
            collectd:
                url: “http://collectd.tld.org/collectd”
                metrics: true
                header: “X-Custom-Header: custom_value"
----

.Additional resources

* For more information about configuring the `write_http` plug-in, see https://collectd.org/wiki/index.php/Plugin:Write_HTTP[write_http].

[discrete]
== collectd::plugin::write_kafka

> Use the `write_kafka` plug-in to send values to a Kafka topic. The configuration of the `write_kafka` plug-in consists of one or more topic blocks. Each block is given a unique name and specifies one Kafka producer. Inside the topic block, the following per-topic options are understood:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the `write_kafka` plug-in to send values to a Kafka topic. Configure the `write_kafka` plug-in with one or more topic blocks, where each block has a unique name, and specifies one Kafka producer. Inside the topic block, the following per-topic options are understood:
```
